Add guide to configure microservices for event trigger (#18)
kyma-incubator/examples: microservice-event-trigger/README.md

# Trigger a Microservice with an Event

This is an end-to-end guide that demonstrates how to set up an Event trigger for a microservice deployed in Kyma. It serves as a reference for developers who wish to configure their microservices with an Event trigger.

The guide uses:

> * [**HTTP DB service**](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/master/http-db-service) as a reference microservice that is deployed in the `demo-event-service-trigger` Namespace. In this guide, you configure it to consume the `order.created` Event from the Application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**HTTP DB service**](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/master/http-db-service) as a reference microservice that is deployed in the `demo-event-service-trigger` Namespace. In this guide, you configure it to consume the **order.created** Event from the Application.
```

    ![](./assets/events-in-service-catalog.png)
    
    ![](./assets/add-once.png)

## Deploy the service

Deploy the [HTTP DB service](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/master/http-db-service/deployment/deployment.yaml). It exposes the `/events/order/created` endpoint to handle the **order.created** Event.

   ![](./assets/deploy-http-db-service.png)
    
## Create the Kyma subscription

By creating a Kyma Subscription, you configure an **order.created** Event trigger for the microservice. This implies whenever the Application sends an **order.created** Event. The Event gets delivered as an HTTP **POST** request to the endpoint of the microservice.

1. Create the [Kyma subscription](./assets/event-trigger-subscription.yaml) by either deploying the Kyma Subscription custom resource from the Console UI or using the kubectl command.

    ![](./assets/deploy-subscription.png)
	
> **TIP:** Refer to [custom resource parameters](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/event-bus/06-01-subscription.md#custom-resource-parameters) for details on all parameters. 

> The main parameter is **endpoint** which takes the value in the `http://{service-name}.{namespace-in-which-service-is-deployed}:{service-port}/{uri-path-to-handle-events}` format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The main parameter is **endpoint** which takes the value in the `http://{service-name}.{namespace-in-which-service-is-deployed}:{service-port}/{uri-path-to-handle-events}` format.
```

Reviewer: There is a line missing and some of the text went into the TIP section.

```yaml
apiVersion: eventing.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: example-subscription
  labels:
    example: example-subscription
spec:
  endpoint: http://http-db-service.demo-event-service-trigger:8017/events/order/created
  include_subscription_name_header: true
  max_inflight: 10
  push_request_timeout_ms: 60
  event_type: order.created
  event_type_version: v1
  source_id: sample-enterprise
```

## Send an Event and verify it

> 1. Send the Event from the commerce mock UI. It is accessible at `https://commerce.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}` .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Send the Event from the commerce mock UI. It is accessible at `https://commerce.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}`.
```

> # Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Trigger a Microservice with an Event
```

> This is a self-contained guide that demonstrates setting up an event trigger for a microservice deployed in Kyma. It serves as a refrence for developers who wish to configure their microservices with event trigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an end-to-end guide that demonstrates how to set up an Event trigger for a microservice deployed in Kyma. It serves as a reference for developers who wish to configure their microservices with an Event trigger.
```

> It uses:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The guide uses:
```

> * [http-db-service](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/master/http-db-service) as a reference microservice that is deployed in the `demo-event-service-trigger` namespace. It will be configured to consume `order.created` event from the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**HTTP DB service**](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/master/http-db-service) as a reference microservice that is deployed in the `demo-event-service-trigger` Namespace. In this guide, you configure it to consume the `order.created` Event from the Application.
```

> * [commerce-mock](https://github.com/SAP/xf-application-mocks/tree/master/commerce-mock) as a reference enterprise application that connects to Kyma. This application will send the event to Kyma which will trigger the microservice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**Commerce mock**](https://github.com/SAP/xf-application-mocks/tree/master/commerce-mock) as a reference enterprise solution that connects to Kyma. In this guide, this Application sends the Event that triggers the microservice in Kyma.
```

> * [commerce-mock](https://github.com/SAP/xf-application-mocks/tree/master/commerce-mock) as a reference enterprise application that connects to Kyma. This application will send the event to Kyma which will trigger the microservice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**Commerce mock**](https://github.com/SAP/xf-application-mocks/tree/master/commerce-mock) as a reference enterprise application that connects to Kyma. This application will send the event to Kyma which will trigger the microservice.
```

> ### Set up commerce mock.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up the commerce mock
```

> This section will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section explains how to:
```

> * Deploy a mock commerce application on Kyma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deploy the commerce mock Application in Kyma.
```

* Expose the commerce mock URL.

> * Establish secure connection via the Kyma application connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Establish a secure connection using the Kyma Application Connector.
```

> * Register the events that can be sent from the mock commerce application to Kyma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Register the Events that can be sent from the commerce mock Application to Kyma.
```

> > **NOTE:** This will be replaced by an actual enterprise application that will connect to Kyma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: We rather avoid writing about future plans in technical docs.

> 1. Create a namespace `mocks` in the Kyma console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `mocks` Namespace in the Kyma Console UI.
```

    ![](./assets/create-ns.png)

> 1. Deploy the [mock commerce application](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SAP/xf-application-mocks/master/commerce-mock/deployment/xf.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Deploy the [commerce mock](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SAP/xf-application-mocks/master/commerce-mock/deployment/xf.yaml).
```

    ![](./assets/deplo-commerc-mock.png)

> 1. Create a new application `sample-enterprise`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new `sample-enterprise` Application.
```

    ![](./assets/create-application.png)

> 1. Copy the URL to connect the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Copy the URL to connect the Application.
```

    ![](./assets/connect-application.png)

> 1. Access the commerce mock at https://commerce.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN} .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Access the commerce mock at `https://commerce.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}`.
```

> In the commerce mock User Interface,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete these steps in the commerce mock UI:
```

> 1. Connect the `sample-enterprise` to mock commerce.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Connect `sample-enterprise` to the commerce mock.
```

    ![](./assets/connect-mock-app.png)
    

> 1. Register the `SAP Commerce Cloud - Events`. After registration, it will be available under the `Remote APIs` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Register `SAP Commerce Cloud - Events`. After registration, it appears under the **Remote APIs** tab.
```

    ![](./assets/register-events.png)

> ### Expose the events from the application to namespace in Kyma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Expose Events from the Application to a Namespace in Kyma
```

> After the application has registered the events that it can send to Kyma, next step would be make them accessible to various serverless workloads (lambdas/microservices) running inside Kyma. Since multiple applications can connect to Kyma, each Kyma namespace is declaratively bound to an application and then the events are made accessible by adding the event catalog to the namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the Application registered the Events that it can send to Kyma, you need to make them accessible to various serverless workloads running inside Kyma, such as lambdas and microservices. Since multiple applications can connect to Kyma, each Kyma Namespace is declaratively bound to an Application and then the Events are made accessible by adding the Event catalog to the Namespace.
```

> 1. Create the namespace `demo-event-service-trigger`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the `demo-event-service-trigger` Namespace.
```

    ![](./assets/create-ns-demo.png)

> 1. Bind the application to the namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Bind the Application to the Namespace.
```

    ![](./assets/bind-app-ns.png)

> 1. `SAP Commerce Cloud - Events` will be available in the catalog. Add them once to enable serverless workloads to consume events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `SAP Commerce Cloud - Events` is available in the Catalog. Add it once to enable serverless workloads to consume Events.
```

    ![](./assets/events-in-service-catalog.png)
    
    ![](./assets/add-once.png)

> ### Service deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy the service
```

> Deploy the [http-db-service](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/master/http-db-service/deployment/deployment.yaml). It exposes a `/events/order/created` endpoint to handle order created event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy the [HTTP DB service](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/master/http-db-service/deployment/deployment.yaml). It exposes the `/events/order/created` endpoint to handle the **order.created** Event.
```

   ![](./assets/deploy-http-db-service.png)
    

> ### Create the Kyma subscription

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create the Kyma subscription
```

> By creating a Kyma Subscription, we configure an event trigger (order.created) for the microservice. This implies whenever the application sends an `order.created` event, the event will be delivered as an HTTP POST request to the endpoint of the microservice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By creating a Kyma Subscription, you configure an **order.created** Event trigger for the microservice. This implies whenever the Application sends an **order.created** Event. The Event gets delivered as an HTTP **POST** request to the endpoint of the microservice.
```

> 1. Create the [Kyma subscription](./assets/event-trigger-subscription.yaml) by either deploying the Kyma Subscription custom resource from console UI or using the kubectl command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the [Kyma subscription](./assets/event-trigger-subscription.yaml) by either deploying the Kyma Subscription custom resource from the Console UI or using the kubectl command.
```

    ![](./assets/deploy-subscription.png)
	

> 	Please refer to [custom resource parameters](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/event-bus/06-01-subscription.md#custom-resource-parameters) for understanding different parameters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **TIP:** Refer to [custom resource parameters](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/event-bus/06-01-subscription.md#custom-resource-parameters) for details on all parameters. 
```

> 	The main value is `endpoint` which is of the form `http://{service-name}.{namespace-in-which-service-is-deployed}:{service-port}/{uri-path-to-handle-events}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main parameter is **endpoint** which takes the value in the `http://{service-name}.{namespace-in-which-service-is-deployed}:{service-port}/{uri-path-to-handle-events}` format.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: eventing.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: example-subscription
  labels:
    example: example-subscription
spec:
  endpoint: http://http-db-service.demo-event-service-trigger:8017/events/order/created
  include_subscription_name_header: true
  max_inflight: 10
  push_request_timeout_ms: 60
  event_type: order.created
  event_type_version: v1
  source_id: sample-enterprise
```

> ### Send and verify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Send an Event and verify it
```

> 1. Send the event from the commerce mock User Interface. It is accessible at https://commerce.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN} .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Send the Event from the commerce mock UI. It is accessible at `https://commerce.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}` .
```

>     * Navigate to Remote APIs --> SAP Commerce Cloud - Events 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Go to `SAP Commerce Cloud - Events` under **Remote APIs**. 
```

>     * Send the `order.created.v1` event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Send the **order.created.v1** Event.
```

    
        ![](./assets/send-event.png) 

> 2. Access the logs and verify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Access the logs and verify them.
```
